Self-Hosted v6.3 ESR Changelog (#5357)
mattermost/docs: source/install/self-managed-changelog.md

 - Updated the About Mattermost Team Edition modal to change the community link from `mattermost.org` to `mattermost.com/community/`.
 - Invite to team modal now auto-focuses its email search input.

#### Enterprise Edition
 - Added a new dialog for Remove License confirmation.
 - The **Renew Now** button is no longer shown if the license ID does not exist in the portal. Instead, **Contact Sales** is shown.
 - System Admins are now able to upgrade the server to the Enterprise edition and request the trial license with a single click for a simplified user experience.

#### Administration
 - The config setting ``ServiceSettings.EnableReliableWebSockets`` promoted to general availability. For compatibility with older clients, the server will always return ``true`` for the ``/v4/config/client`` endpoint.
 - Added server support for receiving binary (messagepack encoded) WebSocket messages.
 - Added new flag ``showTeamSidebar`` in ``registerProducts``, which, when set to ``true``, displays the team sidebar in the product.
 - Memberlist logs and buckets are now parsed by DEBUG, INFO, WARN, or ERROR appropriately.
 - Increased key length in plugin KV store to 150.

### Bug Fixes

>  - Fixed an issue where when selecting the **Upgrade to Enterprise Edition** option, the upgrade progress bar and the **Restart** button were no longer shown once the progress reached 100%.

Author: ```suggestion
 - Fixed an issue where when selecting the **Upgrade to Enterprise Edition** option. The upgrade progress bar and the **Restart** button were no longer shown once the progress reached 100%.
```

# Mattermost Self-Hosted Changelog
[Mattermost](https://mattermost.com) is an open source platform for secure collaboration across the entire software development lifecycle. This changelog summarizes updates for the latest self-hosted versions of Mattermost.

See the [changelog in progress](https://bit.ly/2nK3cVf) for the upcoming release. See the [Legacy Self-Hosted Mattermost Changelog](legacy-self-hosted-changelog) for details on all Mattermost self-hosted releases prior to v5.37. 

Latest Mattermost Releases:
- [Release v6.3 - Extended Support Release](#release-v6-3-extended-support-release)
- [Release v6.2 - Feature Release](#release-v6-2-feature-release)
- [Release v6.1 - Feature Release](#release-v6-1-feature-release)
- [Release v6.0 - Feature Release](#release-v6-0-feature-release)

## Release v6.3 - [Extended Support Release](https://docs.mattermost.com/upgrade/release-definitions.html#extended-support-release-esr)

**Release Day: 2022-01-16**

### Important Upgrade Notes

>  - An asynchronous job was added to fix an issue with Collapsed Reply Threads that resulted in unexpected unread channels. The job may result in an increase in server and database resource usage. Depending on the size of your Mattermost database, this job could take several hours to complete. In our internal testing it took about 3 hours to check and fix a ``ChannelMembership`` table with about 4 million rows in a PostgreSQL database.

Author: ```suggestion
 - Mattermost v6.3 adds an asynchronous job to fix an issue that resulted in channels with join/leave messages being unexpectedly marked as unread when enabling Collapsed Reply Threads. After the upgrade, the job is started automatically when the server restarts and the job executes in the background so the Mattermost server will not experience downtime. We recommend upgrading during off-peak hours as you may experience higher than average server and database resource utilization while the job is in progress. In our testing, the job takes approximately 3 hours per ~4 million rows in the ChannelMembership table using a PostgreSQL database.

You may check the progress of the job by executing this database query: ``select * from Jobs where type = 'fix_channel_unreads_for_crt' order by lastactivityat desc;``. The data column will display the number of channel memberships fixed (BadChannelMembershipsFixed), the number of channel memberships checked (TotalChannelMembershipsChecked), and the current Channel and User ID pair that is being processed.

If you are experiencing severely high server and database resource utilization, you may kill the job. First update the Systems table to stop the job from restarting
``INSERT INTO Systems VALUES ('fix_crt_channel_unreads', true);``

Then restart the Mattermost application to kill the existing job.

Once the job is complete, it will not run again and resource usage will return to average levels. Restarting the Mattermost server will automatically reschedule the job to run after a few minutes, if the ``fix_crt_channel_unreads`` key is not set to ``true`` in the Systems table. If that key is set, then deleting it from the Systems table will reschedule the job after a few minutes.
```

Also see [changelog in progress](https://bit.ly/2nK3cVf) for the next release.

Latest Mattermost Releases:
- [Release v6.3 - Extended Support Release](#release-v6-3-extended-support-release)
- [Release v6.2 - Feature Release](#release-v6-2-feature-release)
- [Release v6.1 - Feature Release](#release-v6-1-feature-release)
- [Release v6.0 - Feature Release](#release-v6-0-feature-release)

> - [Release v5.39 - Quality Release](#release-v5-39-quality-release)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Can be removed.

- [Release v5.37 - Extended Support Release](#release-v5-37-extended-support-release)

## Release v6.3 - [Extended Support Release](https://docs.mattermost.com/upgrade/release-definitions.html#extended-support-release-esr)

**Release Day: 2022-01-16**

### Important Upgrade Notes

>  - An asynchronous job was added to fix an issue with Collapsed Reply Threads that resulted in unexpected unread channels. The job may result in an increase in server and database resource usage. Depending on the size of your Mattermost database, this job could take several hours to complete. In our internal testing it took about 3 hours to check and fix a ``ChannelMembership`` table with about 4 million rows in a PostgreSQL database.

Reviewer 2: Do we have a sense on how many users does 4 million rows in ``ChannelMembership`` table equate to?

(From an admin's perspective, if I have 1,000 users in my system, should I expect more/less than 3 hours of downtime)?

Reviewer 3: @amyblais let's update this with the new wording recommended here: https://github.com/mattermost/docs/pull/5344#discussion_r781660452

This is a good point that we should address if possible. ie we need to offer a conversion that admins might understand: ie # users, # channels, # posts are more relatable numbers than rows in the `ChannelMembership` table. If it's not possible to provide a direct conversion, perhaps we can offer a command or query that an admin can run to get the table size? @ashishbhate any thoughts ^

**IMPORTANT:** If you upgrade from a release earlier than v6.2, please read the other [Important Upgrade Notes](https://docs.mattermost.com/upgrade/important-upgrade-notes.html).

### Highlights

#### Playbook Updates

>  - Granular permission schemes (Enterprise Edition) enable more granular control of playbook access.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - (Enterprise Edition) Granular permission schemes enable more access control of playbooks.
```

 - Playbooks is now completely translatable with over a dozen languages in-progress.

>  - Channel noise is reduced and only notifications that matter are received with the updated Playbooks notifications.

Reviewer 2: Reduced in what way?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - All in-channel notifications are removed, with high-value notifications being delivered via direct message from the Playbooks Bot, reducing channel noise. 
```

#### Boards Updates

>  - GA

Reviewer: Will be filled in once details are added to release blog post.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Boards Updates
 - Boards is now officially in General Availability (GA).
 - Ability to follow cards and get a message notification with details of all the changes made on the card.
 - Ability to quickly identify users and assign them tasks with avatars now supported in the person properties.
 - Newest comments are now sorted at the top to easily find the most recent comment.
```

### Improvements

#### User Interface (UI)
 - Webapp plugins can now register components in the App Bar on the right-hand side of the screen. This feature is hidden behind a feature flag and disabled by default.

>  - Added thread replies to search results when Collapsed Reply Threads is enabled.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - Added threaded replies to search results when Collapsed Reply Threads is enabled.
```

 - Updated “Terms of Service” terminology to “Terms of Use” product-wide.
 - Clarified Latex Rendering config setting descriptions and fixed a broken product documentation link.
 - Updated the “One-click reactions on messages” user setting to “Quick reactions on messages”.
 - Added tab focus support to the global header and user avatars.
 - Added a new Replies banner to the right-hand side Thread viewer.
 - Updated the About Mattermost Team Edition modal to change the community link from `mattermost.org` to `mattermost.com/community/`.
 - Invite to team modal now auto-focuses its email search input.

#### Enterprise Edition

>  - The **Renew Now** button is no longer shown if the license ID does not exist in the portal.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - The **Renew Now** button is no longer shown if the license ID does not exist in the portal. Instead, **Contact Sales** is shown.
```

 - Added a new dialog for Remove License confirmation.

>  - System Admins are now able to upgrade the server to the Enterprise edition and request the trial license with a single selection to enhance product adoption with an improved user experience.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - System Admins are now able to upgrade the server to the Enterprise edition and request the trial license with a single click for simplified user experience.
```

#### Administration

>  - The config setting ``ServiceSettings.EnableReliableWebSockets`` has promoted to general availability. For compatibility with older clients, the server will always return ``true`` for the ``/v4/config/client`` endpoint.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - The config setting ``ServiceSettings.EnableReliableWebSockets`` promoted to general availability. For compatibility with older clients, the server will always return ``true`` for the ``/v4/config/client`` endpoint.
```

>  - Added server support for receiving binary (messagepack encoded) websocket messages.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - Added server support for receiving binary (messagepack encoded) WebSocket messages.
```

 - Memberlist logs and buckets are now parsed by DEBUG, INFO, WARN, or ERROR appropriately.
 - Increased key length in plugin KV store to 150.

### Bug Fixes
 - Fixed an issue where when selecting the **Upgrade to Enterprise Edition** option, the upgrade progress bar and the **Restart** button were no longer shown once the progress reached 100%.
 - Fixed an issue where the user avatar wasn’t removed from the participants list after the user’s only post in a thread was deleted.
 - Fixed an issue with the exit animation on the invitation modal.
 - Fixed an issue where the status menu unexpectedly closed when selecting the “Disable Notifications Until” header.
 - Fixed an issue where using CMD/CTRL + SHIFT + F in global threads did not add a search term automatically.
 - Fixed the alignment of the “X” button in the “message deleted” system message.
 - Fixed an issue where the long post “Show More/Less” background was broken in the Thread viewer.
 - Changed Client4 to properly set Content-Type as application/json on API calls.
 - Fixed an issue with post hover menu overlap.

### config.json

#### Changes to Team Edition and Enterprise Edition:

> - The config setting ``ServiceSettings.EnableReliableWebSockets`` was removed.

Reviewer 2: On the previous section it read it was promoted to GA. But here we say the setting is removed?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The config setting ``ServiceSettings.EnableReliableWebSockets`` was removed, and the ability to buffer messages during a connection loss has been promoted to general availability This setting is enabled for older clients to maintain backwards compatibility.
```

Reviewer 4: > On the previous section it read it was promoted to GA. But here we say the setting is removed?

Basically the same thing. It was a config param, because we allowed users the ability to turn it off in case there was a bug. Now after several releases of building confidence, we have removed the param, and turned it on for everyone.

Strictly speaking - I don't think we ever called the feature "beta". But I'll leave it to you all to word it as you feel.

### Go Version
 - v6.3 is built with Go ``v1.16.7``.

> ### Known Issues

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Known Issues
 - Announcement canner can cause the top team to be partially obstructed [MM-40887](https://mattermost.atlassian.net/browse/MM-40887).
 - **Permissions > Team Override Scheme** may not load properly [MM-40591](https://mattermost.atlassian.net/browse/MM-40591).
 - Image link previews show a blank space [MM-40448](https://mattermost.atlassian.net/browse/MM-40448).
  - "New Replies" banner may display on the right-hand side for a thread that's entirely visible [MM-40317](https://mattermost.atlassian.net/browse/MM-40317).
```
